
  /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation <#mw-head> Jump to search <#p-search>
"Alice in Wonderland" redirects here. For other uses, see Alice in
Wonderland (disambiguation)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(disambiguation)>.

Alice's Adventures in Wonderland Alice in Wonderland, cover 1865.jpg
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_in_Wonderland,_cover_1865.jpg>
Cover of the original edition (1865)
Author	Lewis Carroll <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll>
Illustrator	John Tenniel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>
Country	United Kingdom
Language	English
Genre	Fiction
Publisher	Macmillan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macmillan_Publishers>
Publication date
	26 November 1865
Followed by	/Through the Looking-Glass
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/

/*Alice's Adventures in Wonderland*/ (commonly shortened to /*Alice in
Wonderland*/) is an 1865 novel
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_novel> written by English author
Charles Lutwidge Dodgson under the pseudonym Lewis Carroll
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll>.^[1] <#cite_note-1> It
tells of a girl named Alice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
falling through a rabbit hole into a fantasy world populated by
peculiar, anthropomorphic
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropomorphism> creatures. The tale
plays with logic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logic>, giving the story
lasting popularity with adults as well as with children.^[2]
<#cite_note-Lecercle-2> It is considered to be one of the best examples
of the literary nonsense
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literary_nonsense> genre.^[2]
<#cite_note-Lecercle-2> ^[3] <#cite_note-Schwab-3> Its narrative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narrative> course and structure,
characters <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_(arts)> and imagery
have been enormously influential^[3] <#cite_note-Schwab-3> in both
popular culture and literature, especially in the fantasy
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy> genre.


    Contents

  * 1 Background <#Background>
  * 2 Synopsis <#Synopsis>
  * 3 Characters <#Characters>
      o 3.1 Character allusions <#Character_allusions>
  * 4 Poems and songs <#Poems_and_songs>
  * 5 Writing style and themes <#Writing_style_and_themes>
      o 5.1 Symbolism <#Symbolism>
      o 5.2 Eating and devouring <#Eating_and_devouring>
  * 6 Illustrations <#Illustrations>
  * 7 Reception by reviewers <#Reception_by_reviewers>
  * 8 Publication history <#Publication_history>
      o 8.1 Publication timeline <#Publication_timeline>
  * 9 Adaptations <#Adaptations>
      o 9.1 Cinema and television <#Cinema_and_television>
      o 9.2 Comic strips and books <#Comic_strips_and_books>
      o 9.3 Parodies <#Parodies>
      o 9.4 Live performance <#Live_performance>
      o 9.5 Works influenced <#Works_influenced>
      o 9.6 Illustrations of the different books
        <#Illustrations_of_the_different_books>
  * 10 See also <#See_also>
  * 11 References <#References>
  * 12 Bibliography <#Bibliography>
  * 13 External links <#External_links>


    Background

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice%27s_Adventures_Under_Ground_-_Lewis_Carroll_-_British_Library_Add_MS_46700_f45v.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice%27s_Adventures_Under_Ground_-_Lewis_Carroll_-_British_Library_Add_MS_46700_f45v.jpg>
Page from the original manuscript copy of /Alice's Adventures Under
Ground/, 1864

/Alice/ was published in 1865, three years after Charles Lutwidge
Dodgson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Lutwidge_Dodgson> and the
Reverend Robinson Duckworth
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robinson_Duckworth> rowed in a boat, on 4
July 1862^[4] <#cite_note-Story_Museum-4> (this popular date of the
"golden afternoon"^[5] <#cite_note-5> might be a confusion or even
another Alice-tale, for that particular day was cool, cloudy and
rainy^[6] <#cite_note-6> ), up the Isis
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Isis> with the three young daughters
of Henry Liddell <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Liddell> (the
Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University and Dean of Christ Church): Lorina
Charlotte Liddell (aged 13, born 1849) ("Prima" in the book's prefatory
verse); Alice Pleasance Liddell
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Liddell> (aged 10, born 1852)
("Secunda" in the prefatory verse); Edith Mary Liddell (aged 8, born
1853) ("Tertia" in the prefatory verse).^[7] <#cite_note-7>

The journey began at Folly Bridge
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folly_Bridge> near Oxford
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford> and ended five miles away in the
village of Godstow <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godstow>. During the
trip Charles Dodgson told the girls a story that featured a bored little
girl named Alice who goes looking for an adventure. The girls loved it,
and Alice Liddell asked Dodgson to write it down for her. He began
writing the manuscript of the story the next day, although that earliest
version no longer exists. The girls and Dodgson took another boat trip a
month later when he elaborated the plot to the story of Alice, and in
November he began working on the manuscript in earnest.^[8]
<#cite_note-C57-8>

To add the finishing touches he researched natural history for the
animals presented in the book, and then had the book examined by other
children—particularly the children of George MacDonald
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_MacDonald>. He added his own
illustrations but approached John Tenniel
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel> to illustrate the book for
publication, telling him that the story had been well liked by
children.^[8] <#cite_note-C57-8>

On 26 November 1864 he gave Alice the handwritten manuscript of /Alice's
Adventures Under Ground/, with illustrations by Dodgson himself,
dedicating it as "A Christmas Gift to a Dear Child in Memory of a
Summer's Day".^[9] <#cite_note-Ray-9> Some, including Martin Gardner
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Gardner>, speculate there was an
earlier version that was destroyed later by Dodgson when he wrote a more
elaborate copy by hand.^[10] <#cite_note-10>

But before Alice received her copy, Dodgson was already preparing it for
publication and expanding the 15,500-word original to 27,500 words,^[11]
<#cite_note-11> most notably adding the episodes about the Cheshire Cat
and the Mad Tea-Party.


    Synopsis

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_par_John_Tenniel_02.png>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_par_John_Tenniel_02.png>
The White Rabbit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Rabbit>

*Chapter One – Down the Rabbit Hole*: Alice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>,
a girl of seven years, is feeling bored and drowsy while sitting on the
riverbank with her elder sister. She then notices a talking, clothed
White Rabbit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Rabbit> with a pocket
watch run past. She follows it down a rabbit hole when suddenly she
falls a long way to a curious hall with many locked doors of all sizes.
She finds a small key to a door too small for her to fit through, but
through it she sees an attractive garden. She then discovers a bottle on
a table labelled "DRINK ME," the contents of which cause her to shrink
too small to reach the key which she has left on the table. She eats a
cake with "EAT ME" written on it in currants as the chapter closes.

*Chapter Two – The Pool of Tears*: Chapter Two opens with Alice growing
to such a tremendous size her head hits the ceiling. Alice is unhappy
and, as she cries, her tears flood the hallway. After shrinking down
again due to a fan she had picked up, Alice swims through her own tears
and meets a Mouse
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mouse_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>,
who is swimming as well. She tries to make small talk with him in
elementary French (thinking he may be a French mouse) but her opening
gambit "Où est ma chatte?" ("Where is my cat?") offends the mouse and he
tries to escape her.

*Chapter Three – The Caucus Race and a Long Tale*: The sea of tears
becomes crowded with other animals and birds that have been swept away
by the rising waters. Alice and the other animals convene on the bank
and the question among them is how to get dry again. The Mouse gives
them a very dry lecture on William the Conqueror
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_the_Conqueror>. A Dodo
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dodo_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)> decides
that the best thing to dry them off would be a Caucus-Race, which
consists of everyone running in a circle with no clear winner. Alice
eventually frightens all the animals away, unwittingly, by talking about
her (moderately ferocious) cat.

*Chapter Four – The Rabbit Sends a Little Bill*: The White Rabbit
appears again in search of the Duchess's gloves and fan. Mistaking her
for his maidservant, Mary Ann, he orders Alice to go into the house and
retrieve them. Inside the house she finds another little bottle and
drinks from it; immediately she starts growing again. The horrified
Rabbit orders his gardener, Bill the Lizard
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_the_Lizard>, to climb on the roof
and go down the chimney. Outside, Alice hears the voices of animals that
have gathered to gawk at her giant arm. The crowd hurls pebbles at her,
which turn into little cakes. Alice eats them, and they reduce her again
in size.

*Chapter Five – Advice from a Caterpillar*: Alice comes upon a mushroom
and sitting on it is a blue Caterpillar
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caterpillar_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
smoking a hookah <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hookah>. The Caterpillar
questions Alice and she admits to her current identity crisis,
compounded by her inability to remember a poem. Before crawling away,
the caterpillar tells Alice that one side of the mushroom will make her
taller and the other side will make her shorter. She breaks off two
pieces from the mushroom. One side makes her shrink smaller than ever,
while another causes her neck to grow high into the trees, where a
pigeon mistakes her for a serpent. With some effort, Alice brings
herself back to her normal height. She stumbles upon a small estate and
uses the mushroom to reach a more appropriate height.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:De_Alice%27s_Abenteuer_im_Wunderland_Carroll_pic_23_edited_1_of_2.png>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:De_Alice%27s_Abenteuer_im_Wunderland_Carroll_pic_23_edited_1_of_2.png>
The Cheshire Cat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheshire_Cat>

*Chapter Six – Pig and Pepper*: A Fish-Footman has an invitation for the
Duchess
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duchess_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
of the house, which he delivers to a Frog-Footman. Alice observes this
transaction and, after a perplexing conversation with the frog, lets
herself into the house. The Duchess's Cook is throwing dishes and making
a soup that has too much pepper, which causes Alice, the Duchess, and
her baby (but not the cook or grinning Cheshire Cat
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheshire_Cat>) to sneeze violently. Alice
is given the baby by the Duchess and to her surprise, the baby turns
into a pig. The Cheshire Cat appears in a tree, directing her to the
March Hare <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_Hare>'s house. He
disappears but his grin remains behind to float on its own in the air
prompting Alice to remark that she has often seen a cat without a grin
but never a grin without a cat.

*Chapter Seven – A Mad Tea-Party*: Alice becomes a guest at a "mad" tea
party along with the March Hare
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_Hare>, the Hatter
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hatter>, and a very tired Dormouse
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dormouse_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
who falls asleep frequently, only to be violently woken up moments later
by the March Hare and the Hatter. The characters give Alice many riddles
and stories, including the famous 'Why is a raven like a writing desk?
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Why_is_a_raven_like_a_writing_desk%3F>'.
The Hatter reveals that they have tea all day because Time has punished
him by eternally standing still at 6 pm (tea time). Alice becomes
insulted and tired of being bombarded with riddles and she leaves
claiming that it was the stupidest tea party that she had ever been to.

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_par_John_Tenniel_30.png>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_par_John_Tenniel_30.png>
Alice trying to play croquet <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croquet>
with a Flamingo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flamingo>.

*Chapter Eight – The Queen's Croquet Ground*: Alice leaves the tea party
and enters the garden where she comes upon three living playing cards
painting the white roses on a rose tree red because The Queen of Hearts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
hates white roses. A procession of more cards, kings and queens and even
the White Rabbit enters the garden. Alice then meets the King and Queen.
The Queen, a figure difficult to please, introduces her trademark phrase
"Off with his head!" which she utters at the slightest dissatisfaction
with a subject. Alice is invited (or some might say ordered) to play a
game of croquet with the Queen and the rest of her subjects but the game
quickly descends into chaos. Live flamingos are used as mallets and
hedgehogs as balls and Alice once again meets the Cheshire Cat. The
Queen of Hearts then orders the Cat to be beheaded, only to have her
executioner complain that this is impossible since the head is all that
can be seen of him. Because the cat belongs to the Duchess, the Queen is
prompted to release the Duchess from prison to resolve the matter.

*Chapter Nine – The Mock Turtle's Story*: The Duchess is brought to the
croquet ground at Alice's request. She ruminates on finding morals in
everything around her. The Queen of Hearts dismisses her on the threat
of execution and she introduces Alice to the Gryphon
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gryphon_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>,
who takes her to the Mock Turtle
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mock_Turtle>. The Mock Turtle is very
sad, even though he has no sorrow. He tries to tell his story about how
he used to be a real turtle in school, which the Gryphon interrupts so
they can play a game.

*Chapter Ten – Lobster Quadrille*: The Mock Turtle and the Gryphon dance
to the Lobster Quadrille, while Alice recites (rather incorrectly) "'Tis
the Voice of the Lobster
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%27Tis_the_Voice_of_the_Lobster>". The
Mock Turtle sings them "Beautiful Soup" during which the Gryphon drags
Alice away for an impending trial.

*Chapter Eleven – Who Stole the Tarts?*: Alice attends a trial whereby
the Knave of Hearts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knave_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
is accused of stealing the Queen's tarts. The jury is composed of
various animals, including Bill the Lizard
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_the_Lizard>, the White Rabbit is the
court's trumpeter, and the judge is the King of Hearts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>.
During the proceedings, Alice finds that she is steadily growing larger.
The dormouse scolds Alice and tells her she has no right to grow at such
a rapid pace and take up all the air. Alice scoffs and calls the
dormouse's accusation ridiculous because everyone grows and she cannot
help it. Meanwhile, witnesses at the trial include the Hatter, who
displeases and frustrates the King through his indirect answers to the
questioning, and the Duchess's cook.

*Chapter Twelve – Alice's Evidence*: Alice is then called up as a
witness. She accidentally knocks over the jury box with the animals
inside them and the King orders the animals be placed back into their
seats before the trial continues. The King and Queen order Alice to be
gone, citing Rule 42 ("All persons more than a mile high to leave the
court"), but Alice disputes their judgement and refuses to leave. She
argues with the King and Queen of Hearts over the ridiculous
proceedings, eventually refusing to hold her tongue. The Queen shouts
her familiar "Off with her head!" but Alice is unafraid, calling them
out as just a pack of cards; just as they start to swarm over her.
Alice's sister wakes her up from a dream, brushing what turns out to be
some leaves and not a shower of playing cards from Alice's face. Alice
leaves her sister on the bank to imagine all the curious happenings for
herself.


    Characters

Further information: List of minor characters in the Alice series
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_minor_characters_in_the_Alice_series>

The main characters in /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ are the
following.

  * Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The White Rabbit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Rabbit>
  * The Mouse
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mouse_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Dodo
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dodo_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Lory
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lory_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Eaglet
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eaglet_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Duck
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * Pat
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pat_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * Bill the Lizard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_the_Lizard>
  * Puppy
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Puppy_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Caterpillar
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caterpillar_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Duchess
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duchess_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Cheshire Cat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheshire_Cat>
  * The March Hare <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_Hare>
  * The Hatter <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hatter>
  * The Dormouse <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dormouse>
  * The Queen of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Knave of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knave_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The King of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Gryphon
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gryphon_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Mock Turtle <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mock_Turtle>


      Character allusions

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jessie_Willcox_Smith_Boys_and_Girls_in_Bookland.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jessie_Willcox_Smith_Boys_and_Girls_in_Bookland.jpg>
Jessie Willcox Smith
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jessie_Willcox_Smith>'s illustration of
Alice surrounded by the characters of Wonderland. (1923)
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_-_Carroll,_Robinson_-_S119_-_%27What_day_of_the_month_is_it%27_he_said,_turning_to_Alice.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_-_Carroll,_Robinson_-_S119_-_%27What_day_of_the_month_is_it%27_he_said,_turning_to_Alice.jpg>
Mad tea party. Theophilus Carter
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theophilus_Carter> has been suggested as
a model for The Hatter

In /The Annotated Alice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Annotated_Alice>/, Martin Gardner
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Gardner> provides background
information for the characters. The members of the boating party that
first heard Carroll <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll>'s tale
show up in Chapter 3 ("A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale"). Alice Liddell
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Liddell> herself is there, while
Carroll is caricatured as the Dodo (because Dodgson stuttered when he
spoke, he sometimes pronounced his last name as /Dodo-Dodgson/). The
Duck refers to Canon Duckworth
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robinson_Duckworth>, and the Lory and
Eaglet to Alice Liddell's sisters Lorina and Edith.^[12] <#cite_note-12>

Bill the Lizard may be a play on the name of British Prime Minister
Benjamin Disraeli
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Disraeli>.^[13] <#cite_note-13>
One of Tenniel's illustrations in /Through the Looking-Glass
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/ — the 1871
sequel to /Alice/ — depicts the character referred to as the "Man in
White Paper" (whom Alice meets as a fellow passenger riding on the train
with her) as a caricature of Disraeli, wearing a paper hat.^[14]
<#cite_note-14> The illustrations of the Lion and the Unicorn (also in
/Looking-Glass/) also bear a striking resemblance to Tenniel's /Punch
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punch_(magazine)>/ illustrations of
Gladstone <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Ewart_Gladstone> and
Disraeli.^[15] <#cite_note-15>

It has been suggested by some writers that The Hatter is a reference to
Theophilus Carter <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theophilus_Carter>, a
furniture dealer known in Oxford <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford>.
Tenniel apparently drew the Hatter to resemble Carter, on a suggestion
of Carroll's.^[16] <#cite_note-16> However, it is unlikely that Carter
was the model for The Hatter, and there is no evidence that Carroll ever
invited Tenniel to Oxford for any purpose.^[17] <#cite_note-17> The
Dormouse tells a story about three little sisters named Elsie, Lacie,
and Tillie. These are the Liddell sisters: Elsie is L.C. (Lorina
Charlotte), Tillie is Edith (her family nickname is Matilda), and Lacie
is an anagram <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anagram> of Alice.^[18]
<#cite_note-18>

The Mock Turtle speaks of a Drawling-master, "an old conger eel", who
came once a week to teach "Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils".
This is a reference to the art critic John Ruskin
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Ruskin>, who came once a week to the
Liddell house to teach the children /drawing/, /sketching/, and
/painting in oils/. (The children did, in fact, learn well; Alice
Liddell, for one, produced a number of skilful watercolours.)^[19]
<#cite_note-19>

The Mock Turtle also sings "Turtle Soup". This is a parody of a song
called "Star of the Evening, Beautiful Star", which was performed as a
trio by Lorina, Alice and Edith Liddell for Lewis Carroll in the Liddell
home during the same summer in which he first told the story of /Alice's
Adventures Under Ground/.^[20] <#cite_note-20>


    Poems and songs

Carroll wrote multiple poems and songs for /Alice's Adventures in
Wonderland/, including:

  * "All in the golden afternoon...
    <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/All_in_the_Golden_Afternoon>"—the
    prefatory verse, an original poem by Carroll that recalls the rowing
    expedition on which he first told the story of Alice's adventures
    underground
  * "How Doth the Little Crocodile
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_Doth_the_Little_Crocodile>"—a
    parody of Isaac Watts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isaac_Watts>'
    nursery rhyme, "Against Idleness and Mischief
    <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Against_Idleness_and_Mischief>"
  * "The Mouse's Tale
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mouse%27s_Tale>"—an example of
    concrete poetry <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concrete_poetry>
  * "You Are Old, Father William
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Are_Old,_Father_William>"—a
    parody of Robert Southey
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Southey>'s "The Old Man's
    Comforts and How He Gained Them
    <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Old_Man%27s_Comforts_and_How_He_Gained_Them>"
  * The Duchess's lullaby, "Speak roughly to your little boy..."—a
    parody of David Bates
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Bates_(poet)>' "Speak Gently"
  * "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Bat
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twinkle,_Twinkle,_Little_Bat>"—a
    parody of Jane Taylor
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Taylor_(poet)>'s "Twinkle
    Twinkle Little Star
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twinkle_Twinkle_Little_Star>"
  * "The Lobster Quadrille
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lobster_Quadrille>"—a parody of
    Mary Botham Howitt
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Botham_Howitt>'s "The Spider and
    the Fly <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Spider_and_the_Fly>"
  * "'Tis the Voice of the Lobster
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%27Tis_the_Voice_of_the_Lobster>"—a
    parody of Isaac Watts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isaac_Watts>'
    "The Sluggard <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Sluggard>"
  * "Beautiful Soup"—a parody of James M. Sayles's "Star of the Evening,
    Beautiful Star"
  * "The Queen of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Queen_of_Hearts_(poem)>"—an
    actual nursery rhyme
  * "They told me you had been to her..."—the White Rabbit's evidence


    Writing style and themes


      Symbolism

Martin Gardner <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Gardner> and other
scholars have shown the book to be filled with many parodies of
Victorian popular culture, suggesting it belongs in spirit with Gilbert
& Sullivan <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gilbert_%26_Sullivan>'s
/Topsyturveydom <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topsyturveydom>/.^[21]
<#cite_note-21>

Most of the book's adventures may have been based on and influenced by
people, situations and buildings in Oxford and at Christ Church, /e.g./,
the "Rabbit Hole," which symbolised the actual stairs in the back of the
main hall in Christ Church. A carving of a griffon and rabbit, as seen
in Ripon Cathedral <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ripon_Cathedral>,
where Carroll's father was a canon, may have provided inspiration for
the tale.^[22] <#cite_note-Hello_Yorkshire-22>

Since Carroll was a mathematician at Christ Church
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christ_Church,_Oxford>, it has been
suggested^[23] <#cite_note-more_annotated-23> ^[24] <#cite_note-24> that
there are many references and mathematical concepts in both this story
and /Through the Looking-Glass
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/; examples
include:

  * In chapter 1, "Down the Rabbit-Hole", in the midst of shrinking,
    Alice waxes philosophic concerning what final size she will end up
    as, perhaps "/going out altogether, like a candle/"; this pondering
    reflects the concept of a limit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limit_of_a_function>.
  * In chapter 2, "The Pool of Tears", Alice tries to perform
    multiplication but produces some odd results: "/Let me see: four
    times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times
    seven is—oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate!/" This
    explores the representation of numbers using different bases
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base_(exponentiation)> and positional
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positional_notation> numeral systems
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Numeral_system>: 4 × 5 = 12 in base
    18 notation, 4 × 6 = 13 in base 21 notation, and 4 × 7 could be 14
    in base 24 notation. Continuing this sequence, going up three bases
    each time, the result will continue to be less than 20 in the
    corresponding base notation. (After 4 × 12 = 19 in Base 39, the
    product would be 4 × 13 = 1A in Base 42, then 1B, 1C, 1D, and so on.)
  * In chapter 7, "A Mad Tea-Party", the March Hare, the Hatter, and the
    Dormouse give several examples in which the semantic value of a
    sentence *A* is not the same value of the converse
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimetabole> of *A* (for example,
    "/Why, you might just as well say that 'I see what I eat' is the
    same thing as 'I eat what I see'!/"); in logic and mathematics, this
    is discussing a converse relation
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Converse_relation>.
  * Also in chapter 7, Alice ponders what it means when the changing of
    seats around the circular table places them back at the beginning.
    This is an observation of addition on the ring of integers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_of_integers> modulo
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modular_arithmetic> N.
  * The Cheshire cat fades until it disappears entirely, leaving only
    its wide grin, suspended in the air, leading Alice to marvel and
    note that she has seen a cat without a grin, but never a grin
    without a cat. Deep abstraction of concepts, such as non-Euclidean
    geometry, abstract algebra, and the beginnings of mathematical
    logic, was taking over mathematics at the time Dodgson was writing.
    Dodgson's delineation of the relationship between cat and grin can
    be taken to represent the very concept of mathematics and number
    itself. For example, instead of considering two or three apples, one
    may easily consider the concept of 'apple', upon which the concepts
    of 'two' and 'three' may seem to depend. A far more sophisticated
    jump is to consider the concepts of 'two' and 'three' by themselves,
    just like a grin, originally seemingly dependent on the cat,
    separated conceptually from its physical object.

Literary scholar Melanie Bayley asserted in the magazine /New Scientist
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Scientist>/ that Dodgson wrote /Alice
in Wonderland/ in its final form as a scathing satire on new modern
mathematics that were emerging in the mid-19th century.^[25]
<#cite_note-25>

It has been suggested by several people, including Martin Gardner
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Gardner> and Selwyn Goodacre,^[23]
<#cite_note-more_annotated-23> that Dodgson had an interest in the
French language, choosing to make references and puns about it in the
story. It is most likely that these are references to French lessons—a
common feature of a Victorian middle-class girl's upbringing. For
example, in the second chapter Alice posits that the mouse may be
French. She therefore chooses to speak the first sentence of her French
lesson-book to it: "/Où est ma chatte?/" ("Where is my cat?"). In Henri
Bué's French translation, Alice posits that the mouse may be Italian and
speaks Italian to it.

Pat's "Digging for apples" could be a cross-language pun
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-language_pun>, as /pomme de terre/
(literally; "apple of the earth") means potato and /pomme/ means apple,
which little English girls studying French would easily guess.^[26]
<#cite_note-26>

In the second chapter, Alice initially addresses the mouse as "O Mouse",
based on her memory of the noun declensions
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Declension> "in her brother's Latin
Grammar
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instruction_in_Latin#Order_of_cases>, 'A
mouse – of a mouse – to a mouse – a mouse – O mouse!'" These words
correspond to the first five of Latin's six cases, in a traditional
order established by medieval grammarians: /mus/ (nominative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nominative>), /muris/ (genitive
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genitive>), /muri/ (dative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dative>), /murem/ (accusative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Accusative>), /(O) mus/ (vocative
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vocative>). The sixth case, /mure/
(ablative <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ablative>) is absent from
Alice's recitation.

In the eighth chapter, three cards are painting the roses on a rose tree
red, because they had accidentally planted a white-rose tree that The
Queen of Hearts
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
hates. Red roses symbolised the English House of Lancaster
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_of_Lancaster>, while white roses
were the symbol for their rival House of York
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/House_of_York>. This scene is an allusion
to the Wars of the Roses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wars_of_the_Roses>.^[27] <#cite_note-27>

While the book has remained in print and continually inspires new
adaptations, the cultural material that it references has become largely
specialized knowledge. Dr Leon Coward
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leon_Coward> asserts the book 'suffers'
from "readings which reflect today's fascination with postmodernism and
psychology, rather than delving into an historically informed
interpretation," and speculates that this has been partly driven by
audiences encountering the narrative through a 'second-hand' source,
explaining "our impressions of the original text are based on a
multiplicity of reinterpretations. We don't necessarily realise we're
missing anything in understanding the original product, because we're
usually never dealing /with/ the original product."^[28] <#cite_note-28>


      Eating and devouring

Carina Garland notes how the world is "expressed via representations of
food and appetite", naming Alice's frequent desire for consumption (of
both food and words), her 'Curious Appetites'.^[29] <#cite_note-29>
Often, the idea of eating coincides to make gruesome images. After the
riddle "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?", the Hatter claims that
Alice might as well say, "I see what I eat…I eat what I see" and so the
riddle’s solution, put forward by Boe Birns,^[30] <#cite_note-30> could
be that "A raven eats worms; a writing desk is worm-eaten"; this idea of
food encapsulates idea of life feeding on life, for the worm is being
eaten and then becomes the eater  – a horrific image of mortality.

Nina Auerbach discusses how the novel revolves around eating and
drinking which "motivates much of her [Alice's] behaviour", for the
story is essentially about things "entering and leaving her mouth"^[31]
<#cite_note-31> The animals of Wonderland are of particular interest,
for Alice's relation to them shifts constantly because, as Lovell-Smith
states, Alice's changes in size continually reposition her in the food
chain, serving as a way to make her acutely aware of the ‘eat or be
eaten’ attitude that permeates Wonderland.^[32] <#cite_note-32>


    Illustrations

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AAUG_p06.png>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AAUG_p06.png>
One of the author's own illustrations.

The manuscript was illustrated by Dodgson himself who added 37
illustrations—printed in a facsimile
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facsimile> edition in 1887.^[9]
<#cite_note-Ray-9> John Tenniel provided 42 wood engraved
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wood_engraving> illustrations for the
published version of the book. The first print run was destroyed (or
sold to America^[33] <#cite_note-33> ) at Carroll's request because he
was dissatisfied with the quality. The book was reprinted and published
in 1866.^[9] <#cite_note-Ray-9>

John Tenniel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>'s
illustrations of Alice do not portray the real Alice Liddell
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Liddell>, who had dark hair and a
short fringe. /Alice/ has provided a challenge for other illustrators,
including those of 1907 by Charles Pears
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Pears> and the full series of
colour plates and line-drawings by Harry Rountree
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Rountree> published in the
(inter-War) Children's Press (Glasgow) edition. Other significant
illustrators include: Arthur Rackham
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Rackham> (1907), Willy Pogany
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willy_Pogany> (1929), Mervyn Peake
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mervyn_Peake> (1946), Ralph Steadman
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ralph_Steadman> (1967), Salvador Dalí
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salvador_Dal%C3%AD> (1969), Graham
Overden (1969), Max Ernst <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Max_Ernst>
(1970), Peter Blake <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Blake_(artist)>
(1970), Tove Jansson <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tove_Jansson>
(1977), Anthony Browne
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_Browne_(illustrator)> (1988),
Helen Oxenbury <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Oxenbury> (1999) and
Lisbeth Zwerger <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisbeth_Zwerger> (1999).


    Reception by reviewers

The book /Alice in Wonderland/ failed to be named in an 1888 poll of the
most popular children's stories. Generally it received poor reviews with
reviewers giving more credit to Tenniel's illustrations than to
Carroll's story. At the release of /Through the Looking-Glass/, the
first Alice tale gained in popularity and by the end of the 19th century
Sir Walter Besant <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sir_Walter_Besant>
wrote that /Alice in Wonderland/ "was a book of that extremely rare kind
which will belong to all the generations to come until the language
becomes obsolete".^[34] <#cite_note-34>


    Publication history

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AlicesAdventuresInWonderlandTitlePage.jpg>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:AlicesAdventuresInWonderlandTitlePage.jpg>
Title page of the original edition (1865)

In 1865, Dodgson's tale was published as /Alice's Adventures in
Wonderland/ by "Lewis Carroll
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll>" with illustrations by
John Tenniel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>. The first
print run of 2,000 was held back because Tenniel objected to the print
quality.^[35] <#cite_note-35> A new edition, released in December of the
same year, but carrying an 1866 date, was quickly printed. The text
blocks of the original edition were removed from the binding and sold
with Dodgson's permission to the New York publishing house of D.
Appleton & Company
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._Appleton_%26_Company>. The binding for
the Appleton /Alice/ was virtually identical to the 1866 Macmillan
/Alice/, except for the publisher's name at the foot of the spine. The
title page of the Appleton /Alice/ was an insert cancelling the original
Macmillan title page of 1865, and bearing the New York publisher's
imprint and the date 1866.

The entire print run sold out quickly. /Alice/ was a publishing
sensation, beloved by children and adults alike. Among its first avid
readers were Queen Victoria
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_Victoria>^[36] <#cite_note-36> and
the young Oscar Wilde <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oscar_Wilde>.^[37]
<#cite_note-37> The book has never been out of print. /Alice's
Adventures in Wonderland/ has been translated into at least 97
languages,^[38] <#cite_note-38> or as many as 174 languages.^[39]
<#cite_note-39> There have now been over a hundred editions of the book,
as well as countless adaptations in other media, especially theatre and
film.

The book is commonly referred to by the abbreviated title /Alice in
Wonderland/, which has been popularised by the numerous stage, film and
television adaptations of the story produced over the years. Some
printings of this title contain both /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
and its sequel /Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/.


      Publication timeline

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Question_book-new.svg>
	
This list *needs additional citations for verification
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Verifiability>*.Please help
improve this article
<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&action=edit>
by adding citations to reliable sources
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Introduction_to_referencing_with_Wiki_Markup/1>.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. /(July 2018)//(Learn
how and when to remove this template message
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Maintenance_template_removal>)/

The following list is a timeline of major publication events related to
/Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/:

  * 1865: First UK edition (the second printing).
  * 1865: First US edition (the first printing of above).^[40]
    <#cite_note-40>
  * 1869: /Alice's Abenteuer im Wunderland/^[41] <#cite_note-41> is
    published in German translation by Antonie Zimmermann.
  * 1869: /Aventures d'Alice au pays des merveilles/^[42]
    <#cite_note-42> is published in French translation by Henri Bué.
  * 1870: /Alice's Äventyr i Sagolandet/^[43] <#cite_note-43> is
    published in Swedish translation by Emily Nonnen.
  * 1871: Dodgson meets another Alice during his time in London, Alice
    Raikes, and talks with her about her reflection in a mirror, leading
    to another book, /Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found
    There <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/,
    which sells even better.
  * 1872: /Le Avventure di Alice nel Paese delle Meraviglie/^[44]
    <#cite_note-44> is published in Italian translation by Teodorico
    Pietrocòla Rossetti.
  * 1879: Соня в царстве Дива. First Russian edition of "Lewis Carroll's
    Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" – in Russian.
  * 1882: Selchow & Righter publishes /The Game of Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Game_of_Alice_in_Wonderland>/,
    the first game based on the book.^[45] <#cite_note-45>
  * 1886: Carroll publishes a facsimile of the earlier /Alice's
    Adventures Under Ground/ manuscript.
  * 1890: Carroll publishes /The Nursery "Alice"
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Nursery_%22Alice%22>/, a special
    edition "to be read by Children aged from Nought to Five".

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alicesadventuresinwonderland1898.jpg>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alicesadventuresinwonderland1898.jpg>
Cover of the 1898 edition

  * 1899: /鏡世界/. First Japanese edition of an Alice in Wonderland
    novel. Despite being the first Japanese version of an Alice in
    Wonderland novel, it is actually a translation of /Through the
    Looking-Glass
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/.
  * 1905: Mrs J. C. Gorham publishes /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
    Retold in Words of One Syllable
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_Retold_in_Words_of_One_Syllable>/
    in a series of such books published by A. L. Burt Company, aimed at
    young readers.(ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1-904808-44-2
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-904808-44-2>)
  * 1906: First translation into Finnish by Anni Swan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anni_Swan> (/Liisan seikkailut
    ihmemaailmassa/).
  * 1907: Copyright on /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ expires in UK,
    and so the tale enters the public domain
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_domain>. At least 8 new
    editions are published in that year alone.^[46] <#cite_note-46>
  * 1910: /La Aventuroj de Alicio en Mirlando/ is published in Esperanto
    translation by E. L. Kearney.
  * 1915: /Alice in Wonderland/ " A Dramatization of /"Lewis Carroll's
    Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/" and "/Through the Looking Glass/"
    A dramatic screenplay script rendering of Alice in Wonderland by
    Alice Gerstenberg; Actress /Vivian Tobin/; /copyright A. C. McClurg
    & Co., Chicago 1915/, Produced by /The Players Producing Company of
    Chicago/ (Aline Barnsdall and Arthur Bissell), at the /Fine Arts
    Theater, Chicago, 2/11/1915/, /Booth Theater, New York, 3/23/1915./
  * 1916: Publication of the first edition of the /Windermere Series/,
    /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/. Illustrated by Milo Winter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo_Winter>.
  * 1928: The manuscript of /Alice's Adventures Under Ground/ that
    Carroll wrote and illustrated and that he had given to Alice Liddell
    was sold at Sotheby's on 3 April. It sold to Philip Rosenbach
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosenbach_Museum_%26_Library> for
    £15,400, a world record for the sale of a manuscript at the
    time.^[47] <#cite_note-47>
  * 1945: The animated picture book of Alice in Wonderland, with
    illustrations and paper engineering by Julian Wehr
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_Wehr> is published.^[48]
    <#cite_note-48>
  * 1960: American writer Martin Gardner
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Martin_Gardner> publishes a special
    edition, /The Annotated Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Annotated_Alice>/, incorporating
    the text of both /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ and /Through the
    Looking-Glass/. It has extensive annotations explaining the hidden
    allusions in the books, and includes full texts of the Victorian era
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Victorian_era> poems parodied in
    them. Later editions expand on these annotations.^[49] <#cite_note-49>
  * 1961: The Folio Society
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folio_Society> publication with 42
    illustrations by John Tenniel
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>.
  * 1988: Carroll and Anthony Browne
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_Browne_(illustrator)>,
    illustrator of a new edition from Julia MacRae Books, win the Kurt
    Maschler Award <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_Maschler_Award>,
    or the Emil, for the year's best British "work of imagination for
    children, in which text and illustration are integrated so that each
    enhances and balances the other."^[50] <#cite_note-bizland-50>
  * 1998: Lewis Carroll's own copy of Alice, one of only six surviving
    copies of the 1865 first edition, is sold at an auction for US$1.54
    million to an anonymous American buyer, becoming the most expensive
    children's book (or 19th-century work of literature) ever sold, up
    to that time.^[51] <#cite_note-51>
  * 1999: Carroll and Helen Oxenbury
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Oxenbury>, illustrator of a new
    edition from Walker Books
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walker_Books>, win the Kurt Maschler
    Award <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_Maschler_Award> for
    integrated writing and illustration, as did Anthony Browne and the
    1988 Julia MacRae edition.^[50] <#cite_note-bizland-50>
  * 2007: For the 50th anniversary of the British Kate Greenaway Medal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kate_Greenaway_Medal> (1955–2005), a
    panel of experts names the 1999 Walker Books edition illustrated by
    Helen Oxenbury <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helen_Oxenbury> one of
    the top ten Medal-winning works, composing the ballot for a public
    election of the all-time favourite.^[52] <#cite_note-topten-52>
  * 2008: Folio /Alice's Adventures Under Ground/ facsimile edition
    (limited to 3,750 copies, boxed with /The Original Alice/ pamphlet).
  * 2009: Children's book collector and former American football player
    Pat McInally <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pat_McInally> reportedly
    sold Alice Liddell's own copy at auction for $115,000.^[53]
    <#cite_note-53> 


    Adaptations


      Cinema and television

Main article: Films and television programmes based on Alice in
Wonderland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Films_and_television_programmes_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>

The book has inspired numerous film and television adaptations which
have multiplied as the original work is now in the public domain
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_domain> in all jurisdictions. The
following list is of direct adaptations of /Adventures in Wonderland/
(sometimes merging it with /Through the Looking-Glass/), not other
sequels or works otherwise inspired by the works
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Works_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland> (such
as Tim Burton <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tim_Burton>'s 2010 film
/Alice in Wonderland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(2010_film)>/):

  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1903)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1903_film)>, a
    British silent film <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silent_film>
    directed by Cecil Hepworth and Percy Stow, with May Clark
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/May_Clark> as Alice^[54] <#cite_note-54>
  * /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ (1910)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_(1910_film)>,
    a silent film directed by Edwin Stanton Porter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edwin_Stanton_Porter>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1915)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1915_film)>, a
    silent film directed by W. W. Young
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1931)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1931_film)>, the
    first talkie <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talkie> adaptation,
    directed by Bud Pollard
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1933)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1933_film)>, a
    film version directed by Norman Z. McLeod
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Norman_Z._McLeod>, US
  * /Alice in Wonderland / (1937), a TV adaptation directed by George
    More O'Ferrall <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_More_O%27Ferrall>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1937) TV adaptation again directed by George
    More O'ferrall
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_More_O%27Ferrall> with Usula
    Henray as Alice^[55] <#cite_note-55>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1944) TV adaptation of Eva La Gaillenne's
    stage version of both books, USA.^[56] <#cite_note-56>
  * /Alice/ (1946), a BBC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC> production
    starring Vivian Pickles
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vivian_Pickles> directed by George
    More O'Ferrall
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_More_O%27Ferrall>, UK
  * /Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass/ (1948) BBC TV
    broadcast.^[57] <#cite_note-57>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1949)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1949_film)>, a
    live-action/animated film
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Live-action/animated_film> with stop
    motion <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_motion> segments,
    directed by Dallas Bower <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dallas_Bower>
  * /Through the Crystal Ball: Alice in Wonderland/ (1949) US TV
    performance.^[58] <#cite_note-58>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1950), televised on the CBS
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CBS> Ford Theatre
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ford_Theatre>, with Iris Mann as
    Alice, directed by Franklin J. Schaffner
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franklin_J._Schaffner>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1951)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1951_film)>, a
    film version in traditional animation
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Traditional_animation> from Walt
    Disney Animation Studios
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walt_Disney_Animation_Studios>.
    Arguably the most well known of the Alice film adaptations, and
    today considered one of Disney's great classics.^[59] <#cite_note-59>
  * /Alice au pays des Merveilles/ (1951) France TV broadcast of a stage
    version
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1954) BBC broadcast of a ballet version.^[60]
    <#cite_note-60>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1955), a live television adaptation of the
    1932 Eva LeGallienne <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eva_LeGallienne>
    /Florida Friebus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Florida_Friebus>
    stage adaptation of the novel, directed for television by George
    Schaefer <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Schaefer_(director)>
    for the /Hallmark Hall of Fame
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hallmark_Hall_of_Fame>/
  * /The Adventures of Alice/ (1960) Televised opera ^[61] <#cite_note-61>
  * /The BP Super Show: Alice in Wonderland/ (1962) Australian TV series
    ^[62] <#cite_note-62>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1965), a TV movie directed by Dennis Potter
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1966), an animated Hanna-Barbera
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanna-Barbera> TV movie with Janet
    Waldo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janet_Waldo> as Alice
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1966)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1966_film)>, a
    BBC <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC> television play directed by
    Jonathan Miller <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_Miller>
  * /Alice au pays des merveilles/ (1972), a version made for
    television, by Jean-Christophe Averty
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Christophe_Averty>.
  * /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ (1972)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_(1972_film)>,
    a musical film version starring Fiona Fullerton as Alice
  * /Nel Mondo Di Alice (In the World of Alice)/ Italian TV series in 4
    parts.^[63] <#cite_note-63>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1976)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1976_film)>, a
    porn-musical by Bud Townsend
  * /Alice in Wonderland (1981)/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0_%D0%B2_%D0%A1%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B5_%D1%87%D1%83%D0%B4%D0%B5%D1%81_(%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%82%D1%84%D0%B8%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BC,_1981)&action=edit&redlink=1>,
    a Soviet animated film by Yefrem Puzhanskiy
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1983)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1983_film)>, a
    PBS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBS> Great Performances
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Performances> presentation of a
    1982 stage play which was in turn a revival of the 1932 LeGallienne
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eva_LeGallienne> production
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1985)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1985)>, a
    two-part made-for-TV special produced by Irwin Allen
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irwin_Allen> and featuring a large
    all-star cast
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1986), a BBC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBC> adaptation directed by Barry
    Letts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barry_Letts> and starring Kate
    Dorning
  * /Alice/ (1988 film)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(1988_film)> by Jan Švankmajer
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_%C5%A0vankmajer>, stop motion
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stop_motion> and live action
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (1999)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1999_film)>, a
    1999 television movie first shown on NBC
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NBC> and then shown on British
    television on Channel 4 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Channel_4>


      Comic strips and books

/Alice in Wonderland/ (1934-5) was a comic strip adaptation drawn by
Edward D. Kuekes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_D._Kuekes> and
written by Olive Ray Scott.This version also featured a "topper
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Topper_(comic_strip)>" strip, /Knurl the
Gnome./ The strip was distributed by United Feature Syndicate
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Media>.^[64] <#cite_note-64>

The book has also inspired numerous comic book adaptations:

  * /Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland/ (Dell Comics
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dell_Comics>, 1951)
  * /Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland/ (Gold Key Comics
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gold_Key_Comics>, 1965)
  * /Walt Disney's Alice in Wonderland/ (Whitman, 1984)
  * "The Complete Alice in Wonderland" (Dynamite Entertainment
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamite_Entertainment>, 2005)
  * /Return to Wonderland/ (2009), Zenescope Entertainment
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zenescope_Entertainment>
  * /Alice in Wonderland/ (2011), Zenescope Entertainment


      Parodies

The book has inspired several parodies including:

  * /The Westminster Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Westminster_Alice>/ (1902) by
    Hector Hugh Munro (Saki), illustrated by Francis Carruthers Gould


      Live performance

The first full major production of 'Alice' books during Carroll's
lifetime was /Alice in Wonderland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(musical)>/, a
musical play <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Musical_theatre> by H.
Saville Clark (book) and Walter Slaughter
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walter_Slaughter> (music), which played
in 1886 at the Prince of Wales Theatre
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prince_of_Wales_Theatre> in London.

As the book and its sequel are Carroll's most widely recognised works,
they have also inspired numerous live performances, including plays,
operas, ballets, and traditional English pantomimes
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pantomime>. These works range from fairly
faithful adaptations to those that use the story as a basis for new
works. An example of the latter is /The Eighth Square/, a murder mystery
set in Wonderland, written by Matthew Fleming
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_Fleming> and music and lyrics by
Ben J. Macpherson. This goth-toned rock musical premiered in 2006 at the
New Theatre Royal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Theatre_Royal> in
Portsmouth <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portsmouth>, England. The TA
Fantastika, a popular Black light theatre
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_light_theatre> in Prague performs
"Aspects of Alice"; written and directed by Petr Kratochvíl. This
adaptation is not faithful to the books, but rather explores Alice's
journey into adulthood while incorporating allusions to the history of
Czech Republic.

Over the years, many notable people in the performing arts have been
involved in /Alice/ productions. Actress Eva Le Gallienne
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eva_Le_Gallienne> famously adapted both
Alice books for the stage in 1932; this production has been revived in
New York in 1947 and 1982. One of the most well-known American
productions was Joseph Papp
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Papp>'s 1980 staging of /Alice in
Concert/ at the Public Theater
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_Theater> in New York City.
Elizabeth Swados <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabeth_Swados> wrote
the book, lyrics, and music. Based on both /Alice's Adventures in
Wonderland/ and /Through the Looking-Glass/, Papp and Swados had
previously produced a version of it at the New York Shakespeare Festival
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Shakespeare_Festival>. Meryl
Streep <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meryl_Streep> played Alice, the
White Queen, and Humpty Dumpty. The cast also included Debbie Allen
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debbie_Allen>, Michael Jeter
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Jeter>, and Mark Linn-Baker
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Linn-Baker>. Performed on a bare
stage with the actors in modern dress, the play is a loose adaptation,
with song styles ranging the globe. A community theater production of
Alice was Olivia de Havilland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olivia_de_Havilland>'s first foray onto
the stage.

Similarly, the 1992 operatic production /Alice/ used both /Alice/ books
as its inspiration. It also employs scenes with Charles Dodgson, a young
Alice Liddell, and an adult Alice Liddell, to frame the story. Paul
Schmidt wrote the play, with Tom Waits
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Waits> and Kathleen Brennan
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathleen_Brennan> writing the music.
Although the original production in Hamburg
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamburg>, Germany, received only a small
audience, Tom Waits released the songs as the album /Alice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Tom_Waits_album)>/ in 2002.

A musical adaption was written by Michael Sirotta and Heather M.
Dominick in 1997, titled /Alice in Wonderland, a Musical
Adventure/.^[65] <#cite_note-65> ^[66] <#cite_note-66>

A ballet by Christopher Wheeldon
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christopher_Wheeldon>^[67]
<#cite_note-67> and Nicholas Wright
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicholas_Wright_(playwright)>^[68]
<#cite_note-68> commissioned for The Royal Ballet
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Royal_Ballet> entitled "Alice's
Adventures in Wonderland" premiered in February 2011 at the Royal Opera
House <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royal_Opera_House> in Covent
Garden, London. The ballet was based on the novel Wheeldon grew up
reading as a child and is generally faithful to the original story,
although some critics claimed it may have been too faithful.^[69]
<#cite_note-69> The ballet overall stays generally light hearted for its
running time of an hour and forty minutes. The ballet returned to the
Royal Opera House in 2012.^[70] <#cite_note-70>

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice-in-Wonderland-Central_Park.jpg>
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice-in-Wonderland-Central_Park.jpg>
José de Creeft <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_de_Creeft>,
/Statue of Alice/ in Central Park
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_Park>, 1959


      Works influenced

Main article: Works based on/Alice in Wonderland/
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Works_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>

Alice and the rest of Wonderland continue to inspire or influence many
other works of art to this day, sometimes indirectly via the 1951 Disney
movie <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1951_film)>,
for example. References, homages, reworkings and derivative works can be
found in many works of literature, film, theatre, visual art, music, and
games. The character of the plucky, yet proper, Alice has proven
immensely popular and inspired similar heroines in literature and pop
culture, many also named Alice in homage.


      Illustrations of the different books

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:The_Nursery_Alice_cover_illustration.jpg>

    The cover illustration, by E. Gertrude Thomson
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/E._Gertrude_Thomson>

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:The_White_Rabbit_(Tenniel)_-_The_Nursery_Alice_(1890)_-_BL.jpg>

    The White Rabbit by John Tenniel
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>, coloured

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_drink_me.jpg>

    Alice in Wonderland, John Tenniel
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>, 1865

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_in_Wonderland_by_Arthur_Rackham_-_13_-_That%27s_very_curious.jpg>

    Alice in Wonderland by Arthur Rackham
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Rackham>

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Gertrude_Kay_Alice_in_wonderland_caucus.jpg>

    Alice in wonderland by Gertrude A. Kay
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gertrude_Alice_Kay&action=edit&redlink=1>


  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Liddell_%26_Boyd_(Alice_in_the_looking_glass_works)_by_Karl_Beutel_2011.jpg>

    An illustration by Karl Beutel
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Karl_Beutel&action=edit&redlink=1>


  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Alice_in_Wonderland_by_Arthur_Rackham_-_02_-_The_Pool_of_Tears.jpg>

    The Pool of Tears by Arthur Rackham
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Rackham>

  *
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Milo_winter_Alice.jpg>

    The Pool of Tears by Milo Winter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milo_Winter>


    See also

  * Children's literature portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Children%27s_literature>
  * icon <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Book_collection.jpg>Novels
    portal <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Novels>

  * Translations of /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translations_of_Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Translations of /Through the Looking-Glass/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translations_of_Through_the_Looking-Glass>
  * Illustrators of /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illustrators_of_Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>


    References

 1. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-1>* BBC's Greatest English Books list
 2. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Lecercle_2-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Lecercle_2-1> Lecercle, Jean-Jacques (1994) /Philosophy
    of nonsense: the intuitions of Victorian nonsense literature/
    Routledge, New York. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-415-07652-4
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-415-07652-4>.
    p. 1 ff <https://books.google.com/books?id=pRY6V95WsoMC&pg=PA1>
 3. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Schwab_3-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-Schwab_3-1> Schwab, Gabriele (1996) "Chapter 2: Nonsense
    and Metacommunication: /Alice in Wonderland/" in /The mirror and the
    killer-queen: otherness in literary language/ Indiana University
    Press, Bloomington, Indiana. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-253-33037-6
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-253-33037-6>.
    pp. 49–102
 4. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Story_Museum_4-0>* "The real Alice"
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20101117164807/http://www.storymuseum.org.uk/the-story-museum/familyevents/alice/the-real-alice>.
    Story Museum. Archived from the original
    <http://www.storymuseum.org.uk/the-story-museum/familyevents/alice/the-real-alice>
    on 17 November 2010. Retrieved 24 April 2010. 
 5. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-5>* Lewis Carroll, "Alice on the Stage, The
    Theatre, April 1887
 6. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-6>* Astronomical and Meteorological
    Observations Made at the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford, Vol. 23
 7. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-7>* The Background & History of /Alice In
    Wonderland/
    <http://www.the-office.com/bedtime-story/alice-background.htm>.
    Bedtime-Story Classics. Retrieved 29 January 2007.
 8. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-C57_8-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-C57_8-1>
    Carpenter <#Carpenter>, p. 57
 9. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-Ray_9-0> ^/*b*/ <#cite_ref-Ray_9-1>
    ^/*c*/ <#cite_ref-Ray_9-2> Ray <#Ray>, p. 117
10. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-10>* Gardner <#Gardner>
11. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-11>* Everson, Michael (2009) "Foreword", in
    Carroll, Lewis (2009). /Alice's Adventures under Ground/
    <http://evertype.com/books/alice-underground.html>. Evertype. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-1-904808-39-8
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-1-904808-39-8>. 
12. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-12>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 27
13. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-13>* Brooker, Will (2004). /Alice's
    Adventures: Lewis Carroll in Popular Culture/. New York: Continuum.
    pp. 69–70. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-8264-1433-5
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8264-1433-5>. 
14. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-14>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 172
15. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-15>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 226
16. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-16>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 69
17. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-17>* Collingwood, Stuart Dodgson (1898) /The
    Life And Letters of Lewis Carroll/. T Fisher Unwin, London. p. 47
18. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-18>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 75
19. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-19>* Gardner <#Gardner>, p. 98
20. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-20>* The diary of Lewis Carroll, 1 August 1862
    entry
21. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-21>* Coward, Leon (November 2015). "Alice in
    Wonderland: 150 years". /The Greek Australian Vema/. Sydney,
    Australia: St Andrews Orthodox Press. p. 18. 
22. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-Hello_Yorkshire_22-0>* "Ripon Tourist
    Information"
    <http://www.hello-yorkshire.co.uk/ripon/tourist-information>.
    Hello-Yorkshire.co.uk. Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20091126132109/http://www.hello-yorkshire.co.uk/ripon/tourist-information>
    from the original on 26 November 2009. Retrieved 1 December 2009. 
23. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-more_annotated_23-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-more_annotated_23-1> Gardner, Martin (1990). /More
    Annotated Alice/. New York: Random House. p. 363. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-394-58571-0
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-394-58571-0>. 
24. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-24>* Bayley, Melanie (6 March 2010). "Algebra
    in Wonderland"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/07/opinion/07bayley.html>. /The New
    York Times <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/.
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20100312005347/http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/07/opinion/07bayley.html>
    from the original on 12 March 2010. Retrieved 13 March 2010. 
25. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-25>* Bayley, Melanie. "Alice's adventures in
    algebra: Wonderland solved"
    <https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg20427391.600-alices-adventures-in-algebra-wonderland-solved.html?full=true>.
    New Scientist. Retrieved 21 August 2012. 
26. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-26>* Lewis Carroll (2009). /Alice's Adventures
    in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=V-g1dR6en90C&pg=PA264&lpg=PA264&dq=%22Digging+for+apples%22+alice+in+wonderland+potatoes#v=onepage&q&f=false>.
    Oxford University Press. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-19-955829-2
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-19-955829-2>. 
27. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-27>* "Other explanations | Lenny's Alice in
    Wonderland site"
    <http://www.alice-in-wonderland.net/explain/alice8xx.html>.
    Alice-in-wonderland.net. Retrieved 4 September 2010. 
28. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-28>* Coward, Leon (November 2015). "Alice in
    Wonderland: 150 years". /The Greek Australian Vema/. Sydney,
    Australia: St Andrews Orthodox Press. p. 18. 
29. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-29>* Garland, C. (2008). "Curious Appetites:
    Food, Desire, Gender and Subjectivity in Lewis Carroll's Alice
    Texts". /The Lion and the Unicorn/. *32*: 22. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1353/uni.2008.0004
    <https://doi.org/10.1353/uni.2008.0004>. 
30. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-30>* Boe Birns, Margaret (1984). "Solving the
    Mad Hatter's Riddle". /The Massachusetts Review/. *25* (3): 457–468
    (462). JSTOR <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSTOR> 25089579
    <https://www.jstor.org/stable/25089579>. 
31. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-31>* Auerbach, Nina (1973). "Alice and
    Wonderland: A Curious Child". /Victorian Studies/. *17* (1): 31-47
    (39). JSTOR <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSTOR> 3826513
    <https://www.jstor.org/stable/3826513>. 
32. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-32>* Lovell-Smith, R. (2004). "The Animals of
    Wonderland: Tenniel as Carroll's Reader". /Criticism/. *45* (4):
    383. doi
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_object_identifier>:10.1353/crt.2004.0020
    <https://doi.org/10.1353/crt.2004.0020>. 
33. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-33>* Ovenden, Graham (1972). /The Illustrators
    of Alice/. New York: St. Martin's Press. p. 102. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-902620-25-4
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-902620-25-4>. 
34. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-34>* Carpenter <#Carpenter>, p. 68
35. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-35>* Ray <#Ray>, p. 116
36. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-36>* "Alice in Wonderland"
    <http://qi.com/infocloud/alice-in-wonderland>. /QI/. Quite
    Interesting Ltd. Retrieved 15 April 2017. 
37. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-37>* Tucker, Rebecca (25 February 2011).
    "Oscar Reads: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll"
    <http://news.nationalpost.com/afterword/oscar-reads-alices-adventures-in-wonderland-by-lewis-carroll>.
    Retrieved 15 April 2017. 
38. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-38>* /Bandersnatch: The Newsletter of The
    Lewis Carroll Society/, Issue 149 (January 2011), p. 11.
39. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-39>* "Alice in a World of Wonderlands - The
    Books" <http://aliceinaworldofwonderlands.com/book.html>.
    /aliceinaworldofwonderlands.com/. 
40. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-40>* Carroll, Lewis
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll> (1995). /The Complete,
    Fully Illustrated Works/. New York: Gramercy Books. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-517-10027-1
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-517-10027-1>. 
41. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-41>* "Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in
    Wonderland – in German" <http://www.evertype.com/books/alice-de.html>.
42. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-42>* "Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in
    Wonderland – in French" <http://www.evertype.com/books/alice-fr.html>.
43. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-43>* "Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in
    Wonderland – in Swedish" <http://www.evertype.com/books/alice-sv.html>.
44. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-44>* "Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in
    Wonderland – in Italian" <http://www.evertype.com/books/alice-it.html>.
45. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-45>* "Pastimes: Children's Games and Their
    Literary Inspirations"
    <http://www.indiana.edu/~liblilly/games/alice.html>. Indiana
    University <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indiana_University>.
    Retrieved 9 October 2012. 
46. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-46>* Page 11 of Introduction, by John Davies,
    of Ovenden, Graham (1972). /The Illustrators of Alice/. New York:
    St. Martin's Press. p. 102. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-902620-25-4
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-902620-25-4>. 
47. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-47>* Basbanes, Nicholas
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicholas_A._Basbanes> (1999). /A
    Gentle Madness: Bibliophiles, Bibliomanes, and the Eternal Passion
    for Books/. Macmillan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macmillan_Publishers>. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-8050-6176-5
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-8050-6176-5>. 
48. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-48>* Wehr, Julian; Carroll, Lewis. /The
    animated picture book of Alice in Wonderland/
    <http://www.worldcat.org/title/animated-picture-book-of-alice-in-wonderland/oclc/11319992>.
    Retrieved 12 December 2016. 
49. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-49>* Review in /The New Statesman/
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20090326024930/http://www.newstatesman.com/200012250061>,
    25 December 2000, by Will Self
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Will_Self>
50. ^ Jump up to: ^/*a*/ <#cite_ref-bizland_50-0> ^/*b*/
    <#cite_ref-bizland_50-1> "Kurt Maschler Awards"
    <http://www.bookawards.bizland.com/kurt_maschler_award_for_children.htm>.
    Book Awards. /bizland.com/. Retrieved 7 October 2013.
51. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-51>* "Auction Record for an Original 'Alice'"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/1998/12/11/nyregion/auction-record-for-an-original-alice.html>.
    /The New York Times
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_New_York_Times>/. 11 December
    1998. p. B30. 
52. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-topten_52-0>* "70 Years Celebration:
    Anniversary Top Tens"
    <http://www.carnegiegreenaway.org.uk/celebration/top_tens.php?action=list>
    Archived
    <https://web.archive.org/web/20161027022418/http://www.carnegiegreenaway.org.uk/celebration/top_tens.php?action=list>
    27 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayback_Machine>.. The CILIP Carnegie
    & Kate Greenaway Children's Book Awards. CILIP
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CILIP>. Retrieved 7 October 2013.
53. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-53>* "Real Alice in Wonderland book sells for
    $115,000 in USA"
    <http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/england/oxfordshire/8416127.stm>. BBC
    News. 17 December 2009. Retrieved 8 January 2012. 
54. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-54>* Mills, Ted (31 March 2016). "The First
    Film Adaptation of Alice in Wonderland (1903)"
    <http://www.openculture.com/2016/03/the-earliest-film-adaptation-of-alice-in-wonderland-from-1903.html>.
    /Open Culture/. Retrieved 19 May 2017. 
55. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-55>* "Phantomwise"
    <http://still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise.tumblr.com/post/84643654822/my-friend-someperson42-on-youtube-found-more>.
    /Phantomwise/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
56. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-56>* "Phantomwise"
    <http://still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise.tumblr.com/post/83435688242/so-my-new-friend-someperson42-on-youtube-is>.
    /Phantomwise/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
57. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-57>* "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and
    Through the Looking-Glass"
    <http://bufvc.ac.uk/screenplays/index.php/prog/2027>. /British
    Universities Film & Video Council
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Universities_Film_%26_Video_Council>/.
    Retrieved 6 July 2017. 
58. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-58>* "Phantomwise"
    <http://still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise.tumblr.com/post/85935660134/on-this-day-in-alice-filmtv-history-may-16>.
    /Phantomwise/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
59. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-59>* Louis Peitzman, "17 Adaptations Of
    "Alice's Adventures In Wonderland" Through The Years
    <https://www.buzzfeed.com/louispeitzman/adaptations-of-alices-adventures-in-wonderland#.cnwqqX11a>",
    /BuzzFeed/ (11 October 2013), describing the 1951 Disney film as
    "undoubtedly the most well known".
60. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-60>* "All-in-the-golden-afternoon96,
    still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise: London's..."
    <https://all-in-the-golden-afternoon96.tumblr.com/post/104835861165/still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise-londons>
    /All-in-the-golden-afternoon96/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
61. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-61>* "Phantomwise"
    <http://still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise.tumblr.com/post/84141157062/all-in-the-golden-afternoon96-rare-photo-of-the>.
    /Phantomwise/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
62. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-62>* "Phantomwise"
    <http://still-she-haunts-me-phantomwise.tumblr.com/post/95964592982/news-of-another-rare-australian-alice-from-1962>.
    /Phantomwise/. Retrieved 2016-04-23. 
63. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-63>* fictionrare2 (2014-09-29), /Nel mondo di
    Alice 1p/ <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RmBTV6CINrg>, retrieved
    2016-04-23 
64. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-64>* "Ed Kuekes"
    <http://lambiek.net/artists/k/kuekes_ed.htm>. /Lambiek
    Comiclopedia/. Lambiek <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lambiek>.
    April 11, 2008. Retrieved August 9, 2017. 
65. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-65>* "Winter Children's Theatre "Alice in
    Wonderland" Runs Through March 24th"
    <http://www.northcoastoregon.com/2013/03/12/winter-childrens-theatre-alice-in-wonderland-runs-through-march-24th/>.
    North Coast Oregon. Retrieved 9 January 2015. 
66. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-66>* "First Redeemer conservatory of music and
    fine arts presents Alice in Wonderland"
    <http://northfulton.com/stories/First-Redeemer-conservatory-of-music-and-fine-arts-presents-Alice-in-Wonderland,31808>.
    APPEN MEDIA GROUP. Retrieved 9 January 2015. 
67. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-67>* "Royal Ballet Takes a Chance on Alice"
    <http://www.time.com/time/arts/article/0,8599,2056483,00.html>.
    /Time/. 3 March 2011. 
68. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-68>* "Joby Talbot – Alice's Adventures in
    Wonderland (2010) – Music Sales Classical"
    <http://www.chesternovello.com/Default.aspx?TabId=2432&State_3041=2&workId_3041=43051>.
    Chesternovello.com. Retrieved 4 August 2013. 
69. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-69>* Sulcas, Roslyn (1 March 2011). "'Alice in
    Wonderland' at the Royal Ballet – Review"
    <https://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/02/arts/dance/02alice.html>. /The
    New York Times/. 
70. *Jump up ^ <#cite_ref-70>* "Calendar < Events - Royal Opera House <
    August 2013" <http://www.roh.org.uk/booknow/calendar.aspx>.
    Roh.org.uk. Retrieved 4 August 2013. 


    Bibliography

  * Carpenter, Humphrey (1985). /Secret Gardens: The Golden Age of
    Children's Literature/. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-395-35293-9
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-395-35293-9>. 
  * Gardner, Martin (2000). /The Annotated Alice: the definitive
    edition/. New York and London: W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-393-04847-6
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-393-04847-6>. 
  * Ray, Gordon Norton (1991). /The Illustrator and the book in England
    from 1790 to 1914/
    <https://books.google.com/?id=HsTU8eWtej8C&pg=PA154>. New York:
    Dover. ISBN
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/International_Standard_Book_Number> 978-0-486-26955-9
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:BookSources/978-0-486-26955-9>. 


    External links

Find more about
*Alice's Adventures in Wonderland

*at Wikipedia's sister projects
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Wikimedia_sister_projects>

  * Definitions <https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland>
    from Wiktionary
  * Media
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Alice_in_Wonderland>
    from Wikimedia Commons
  * Quotations
    <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
    from Wikiquote
  * Texts
    <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
    from Wikisource
  * Textbooks
    <https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll/Alice_in_Wonderland>
    from Wikibooks

  * University of Adelaide: Text with illustrations by Tenniel
    <http://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/c/carroll/lewis/alice/>
  * The Real Alice In Wonderland
    <http://www.life.com/image/3326160/in-gallery/40212/the-real-alice-in-wonderland>
    – slideshow by /Life magazine
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life_magazine>/
  * British Library: Original manuscript and drawings by Lewis Carroll
    (requires Flash)
    <http://www.bl.uk/onlinegallery/ttp/alice/accessible/introduction.html>
  * Project Gutenberg <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Gutenberg>:
      o /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
        <http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/11>, plain text
      o /Alice's Adventures Under Ground/
        <http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/19002>, HTML with facsimiles of
        original manuscript pages, and illustrations by Carroll
  * LibriVox <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LibriVox>:
      o /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
        <https://librivox.org/search?title=Alice%27s+Adventures+in+Wonderland&author=Carroll&reader=&keywords=&genre_id=0&status=all&project_type=either&recorded_language=&sort_order=catalog_date&search_page=1&search_form=advanced>
        public domain audiobook at LibriVox
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LibriVox>
      o /Alice's Adventures Underground/
        <https://librivox.org/search?title=Alice%27s+Adventures+Underground&author=Carroll&reader=&keywords=&genre_id=0&status=all&project_type=either&recorded_language=&sort_order=catalog_date&search_page=1&search_form=advanced>
        public domain audiobook at LibriVox
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LibriVox>
  * "How Alice Got to Wonderland"
    <http://www.conceptualfiction.com/alice_in_wonderland.html> by Ted
    Gioia (Conceptual Fiction)
  * /Alice In Wonderland/
    <http://www.ciffciaff.org/en/content/alice-wonderland> –
    Multilanguage website
  * GASL.org: First editions of /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/ and
    /Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There/
    <http://www.gasl.org/refbib/Carroll__Alice_1st.pdf> With 92
    Illustrations by Tenniel, 1866/1872.
  * Images of the 1st editions of the book and other works by Lewis
    Carroll: https://sites.google.com/site/lewiscarroll1steditions/
  * Immersive Audiobook and Companion PDF
    <http://nother.us/audio-books/alice-in-wonderland/> – read by /April
    Sadowski
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=April_Sadowski&action=edit&redlink=1>/
    (Nother Audio)
  * Afterlife of Alice and Her Adventures in Wonderland
    <http://ufdc.ufl.edu/alice> is a collection of various editions of
    Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Through the Looking-Glass, What
    Alice Found There, and other similar works.
  * Alice in Wonderland Central Park.com
    <http://www.centralpark.com/guide/attractions/alice-in-wonderland.html>

show

  * v <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Alice>
  * t <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Alice>
  * e
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Alice&action=edit>

Lewis Carroll <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lewis_Carroll>'s /Alice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>/

  * /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
  * /Through the Looking-Glass
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Through_the_Looking-Glass>/
  * "The Hunting of the Snark
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hunting_of_the_Snark>"

Characters	
/Alice's Adventures
in Wonderland
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_minor_characters_in_the_Alice_series>/


  * Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The White Rabbit <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Rabbit>
  * The Mouse
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mouse_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Dodo
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dodo_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Duck
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Lory
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lory_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * Eaglet
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eaglet_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * Pat
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pat_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * Bill the Lizard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_the_Lizard>
  * Puppy
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puppy_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Caterpillar
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caterpillar_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Duchess
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duchess_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Cheshire Cat <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheshire_Cat>
  * The March Hare <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/March_Hare>
  * The Hatter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hatter_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>

      o Tarrant Hightopp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarrant_Hightopp>
  * The Dormouse <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dormouse>
  * The Queen of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The King of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Knave of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knave_of_Hearts_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Gryphon
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gryphon_(Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland)>
  * The Mock Turtle <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mock_Turtle>

/Through the
Looking-Glass
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_minor_characters_in_the_Alice_series>/


  * The Red Queen
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_Queen_(Through_the_Looking-Glass)>
  * The White Queen
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Queen_(Through_the_Looking-Glass)>
  * The Red King
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_King_(Through_the_Looking-Glass)>
  * The White King
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_King_(Through_the_Looking-Glass)>
  * The White Knight
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_Knight_(Through_the_Looking-Glass)>
  * Tweedledum and Tweedledee
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tweedledum_and_Tweedledee>
  * The Sheep <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sheep>
  * Humpty Dumpty <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humpty_Dumpty>
  * The Lion and the Unicorn
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lion_and_the_Unicorn>
  * Bandersnatch <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandersnatch>
  * Jubjub Bird <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jubjub_bird>

Locations	
/Alice's Adventures
in Wonderland/	

  * Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonderland_(fictional_country)>

/Through the
Looking-Glass/	

  * Looking-Glass Land <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Looking-Glass_Land>
  * The Old Sheep Shop <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Old_Sheep_Shop>

Related topics	

  * Alice Liddell <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Liddell>
  * Alice's Shop <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Shop>
  * John Tenniel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Tenniel>
  * Theophilus Carter <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theophilus_Carter>
  * /The Annotated Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Annotated_Alice>/
  * /Mischmasch <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mischmasch>/
  * Works based on /Alice in Wonderland/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Works_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>
      o Films and television
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Films_and_television_programmes_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>
      o Disney franchise
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(franchise)>
  * Translations of /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translations_of_Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Translations of /Through the Looking-Glass/
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Translations_of_Through_the_Looking-Glass>

Adaptations
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Works_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>	
Film
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Films_and_television_programmes_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>


  * 1903 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1903_film)>
  * 1910
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_(1910_film)>
  * 1915 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1915_film)>
  * 1931 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1931_film)>
  * 1933 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1933_film)>
  * 1949 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1949_film)>
  * 1951 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1951_film)>
  * 1966 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1966_TV_play)>
  * 1972
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_(1972_film)>
  * 1976 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1976_film)>
  * 1982 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(1982_film)>
  * 1985 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1985_film)>
  * 1987
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Through_the_Looking_Glass_(1987_film)>
  * 1988 (Czechoslovak) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(1988_film)>
  * 1988 (Australian)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1988_film)>
  * 1995 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1995_film)>
  * 1999 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(1999_film)>
  * 2010 <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(2010_film)>

Stage	

  * /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_(ballet)>/
    (ballet)
  * /Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(musical)>/ (musical)
  * /Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(opera)>/ (opera)
  * /But Never Jam Today
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/But_Never_Jam_Today>/ (Carroll musical)
  * /Wonderland <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonderland_(musical)>/
    (Wildhorn musical)
  * /Peter and Alice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_and_Alice>/
    (2013 play)
  * /Wonder.land <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonder.land>/ (Albarn
    musical)

Television
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Films_and_television_programmes_based_on_Alice_in_Wonderland>


  * /Fushigi no Kuni no Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fushigi_no_Kuni_no_Alice>/
  * /Once Upon a Time
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Once_Upon_a_Time_(TV_series)>/
  * /Once Upon a Time in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Once_Upon_a_Time_in_Wonderland>/

Poems	

  * "All in the golden afternoon...
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/All_in_the_golden_afternoon...>"
  * "How Doth the Little Crocodile
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/How_Doth_the_Little_Crocodile>"
  * "The Mouse's Tale <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mouse%27s_Tale>"
  * "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Bat
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twinkle,_Twinkle,_Little_Bat>"
  * "You Are Old, Father William
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Are_Old,_Father_William>"
  * "'Tis the Voice of the Lobster
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%27Tis_the_Voice_of_the_Lobster>"
  * "Jabberwocky <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabberwocky>"
  * "The Walrus and the Carpenter
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Walrus_and_the_Carpenter>"
  * "Haddocks' Eyes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haddocks%27_Eyes>"
  * "They told me you had been to her...
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/They_told_me_you_had_been_to_her...>"
  * "The Mock Turtle's Song
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mock_Turtle%27s_Song>"
  * "The Hunting of the Snark
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hunting_of_the_Snark>"

Sequels	

  * /A New Alice in the Old Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_New_Alice_in_the_Old_Wonderland>/
    (1895)
  * /New Adventures of Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Adventures_of_Alice>/ (1917)
  * /Alice of Wonderland in Paris
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_of_Wonderland_in_Paris>/ (1966)
  * /Alice Through the Needle's Eye
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Through_the_Needle%27s_Eye>/ (1984)
  * /Automated Alice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automated_Alice>/ (1996)
  * /Wonderland Revisited and the Games Alice Played There
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wonderland_Revisited_and_the_Games_Alice_Played_There>/
    (2009)

Retellings	

  * /The Nursery "Alice"
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Nursery_%22Alice%22>/ (1890)
  * /Alice's Adventures in Wonderland retold in words of one syllable
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland_retold_in_words_of_one_syllable>/
    (1905)
  * /Alice in Verse: The Lost Rhymes of Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Verse:_The_Lost_Rhymes_of_Wonderland>/
    (2010)

Parodies	

  * /The Westminster Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Westminster_Alice>/ (1902)
  * /Clara in Blunderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clara_in_Blunderland>/ (1902)
  * /Lost in Blunderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_in_Blunderland>/ (1903)
  * /John Bull's Adventures in the Fiscal Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Bull%27s_Adventures_in_the_Fiscal_Wonderland>/
    (1904)
  * /Alice in Blunderland: An Iridescent Dream
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Blunderland:_An_Iridescent_Dream>/
    (1904)

Imitations	

  * /Mopsa the Fairy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Ingelow>/ (1869)
  * /Davy and the Goblin
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Davy_and_the_Goblin>/ (1884)
  * /The Admiral's Caravan
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Admiral%27s_Caravan>/ (1891)
  * /Gladys in Grammarland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gladys_in_Grammarland>/ (1896)
  * /A New Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magical_Monarch_of_Mo>/ (1898)
  * /Rollo in Emblemland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rollo_in_Emblemland>/ (1902)
  * /Justnowland <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magic_World>/ (1912)
  * /Alice in Orchestralia
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Orchestralia>/ (1925)

Reimagining	

  * /Alice in Wonderland or What's a Nice Kid Like You Doing in a Place
    Like This?
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_or_What%27s_a_Nice_Kid_Like_You_Doing_in_a_Place_Like_This%3F>/
    (1966)
  * /Alice or the Last Escapade
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_or_the_Last_Escapade>/ (1977)
  * /Adventures in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adventures_in_Wonderland>/ (1991)
  * /The Looking Glass Wars
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Looking_Glass_Wars>/ (2006)
  * /Alice <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_(miniseries)>/ (2009)
  * /Malice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Malice_in_Wonderland_(2009_film)>/ (2009)
  * /Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(2010_film)>/ (2010)
  * /Alice Through the Looking Glass
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Through_the_Looking_Glass_(2016_film)>/
    (2016)

Literary	

  * /Alice in Murderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Murderland_(manga)>/
  * /Alice in the Country of Hearts
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_the_Country_of_Hearts>/
  * /Miyuki-chan in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miyuki-chan_in_Wonderland>/

Video games	

  * /Alice no Paint Adventure
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_no_Paint_Adventure>/ (1995)
  * /Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(2000_video_game)>/
    (2000)
  * /American McGee's Alice
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_McGee%27s_Alice>/ (2000)
  * /Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_in_Wonderland_(2010_video_game)>/
    (2010)
  * /Alice: Madness Returns
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice:_Madness_Returns>/ (2011)
  * /Kingdom Hearts <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_Hearts>/

  * Wikipedia book Book
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book:Alice_in_Wonderland>
  * Category Category
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Alice_in_Wonderland>

show

  * v <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Fantasy_fiction>
  * t <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template_talk:Fantasy_fiction>
  * e
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Template:Fantasy_fiction&action=edit>

Fantasy fiction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy>

  * History <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_fantasy>
  * Literature <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_literature>
  * Outline <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outline_of_fantasy>
  * Sources <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sources_of_fantasy>

Subgenres	

  * Bangsian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bangsian_fantasy>
  * Comic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comic_fantasy>
  * Contemporary <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contemporary_fantasy>
  * Dark <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_fantasy>
  * Dying Earth <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dying_Earth_(subgenre)>
  * Fairytale <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairytale_fantasy>
  * Fantastique <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastique>
  * Fantasy of manners <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_of_manners>
  * Folklore Mythology (based) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folklore>
  * Gaslamp <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslamp_fantasy>
  * Gothic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gothic_fiction>
  * Hard <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_fantasy>
  * Heroic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heroic_fantasy>
  * High <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High_fantasy>
      o list <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_high_fantasy_fiction>
  * Historical <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Historical_fantasy>
  * Juvenile <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Juvenile_fantasy>
  * Lost world <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_world>
  * Low <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Low_fantasy>
  * Magical girl <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magical_girl>
  * Medieval <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Medieval_fantasy>
  * Mythic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mythic_fiction>
  * Romantic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Romantic_fantasy>
  * Shenmo <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gods_and_demons_fiction>
  * Sword and sorcery <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sword_and_sorcery>
  * Urban <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urban_fantasy>
  * Weird fiction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weird_fiction>

Media	
Film <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_film> and television
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_television>	

  * Anime <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_anime>
  * Films <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lists_of_fantasy_films>
  * Television programs
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_television_programs>

Literature <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_literature>	

  * Authors <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_authors>
  * Ballantine Adult Fantasy series
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ballantine_Adult_Fantasy_series>
  * Comics <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_comics>
      o list <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_comics>
  * /The Encyclopedia of Fantasy
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Encyclopedia_of_Fantasy>/
  * Fantasy Masterworks <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_Masterworks>
  * Internet Speculative Fiction Database
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Speculative_Fiction_Database>
  * List of novels (A–H)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_novels_(A%E2%80%93H)>
  * (I–R)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_novels_(I%E2%80%93R)>
  * (S–Z)
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_novels_(S%E2%80%93Z)>
  * Newcastle Forgotten Fantasy Library
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newcastle_Forgotten_Fantasy_Library>
  * Publishers
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_science_fiction_publishers>

Magazines <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_fiction_magazine>	

  * /Fantastic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastic_(magazine)>/
  * /Locus <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locus_(magazine)>/
  * /The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Magazine_of_Fantasy_%26_Science_Fiction>/
  * /Science Fantasy
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_Fantasy_(magazine)>/
  * /Unknown <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unknown_(magazine)>/
  * /Weird Tales <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weird_Tales>/

Fandom <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_fandom>	

  * Art <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastic_art>
  * Filk music <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filk_music>
  * /Harry Potter/ fandom
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Potter_fandom>
  * Inklings <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inklings>
  * Mythopoeic Society <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mythopoeic_Society>
  * Religion
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_religious_ideas_in_fantasy_fiction>
  * Tolkien fandom <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tolkien_fandom>
  * Works inspired by J. R. R. Tolkien
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Works_inspired_by_J._R._R._Tolkien>
  * World Fantasy Convention
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Fantasy_Convention>
      o World Fantasy Award
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Fantasy_Award>

Tropes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_tropes>	
Creatures <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legendary_creature>	

  * Angels <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angel>
  * Demons <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demon>
  * Dragons <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragon>
  * Elementals <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elemental>
  * Familiars <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Familiar_spirit>
  * Faeries <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairy>
  * Jinns <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jinn>
  * Lycanthropes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Werewolf>
  * Old Ones <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_One_in_fiction>
  * Sirens <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siren_(mythology)>
  * Spirits <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spirit>
  * Undead <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Undead>
  * Unicorns <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicorn>
  * Yōkai <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Y%C5%8Dkai>

Characters <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_stock_characters>	

  * Barbarian <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbarian>
  * Caveman <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caveman>
  * Damsel in distress <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damsel_in_distress>
  * Dark Lord <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_Lord_(fiction)>
  * Heroes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hero>
  * Fairy godmother <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairy_godmother>
  * Magicians <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magician_(fantasy)>
  * Occult detective
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occult_detective_fiction>
      o list
        <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_science_fiction_and_fantasy_detectives>
  * Witches <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Witchcraft>

Magic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_in_fiction> (dark
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_magic> / light
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/White_magic>)	

  * Animism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Animism>
  * Demonology <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demonology>
  * Evocation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evocation>
  * Incantation <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Incantation>
  * Necromancy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Necromancy>
  * Shapeshifting <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapeshifting>
  * Technomancy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technomancy>
  * Witchcraft <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Witchcraft>

Fantasy races <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Fantasy_creatures>	

  * Dwarves <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dwarf_(mythology)>
  * Elves <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elf>
  * Treants <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ent>
  * Giants <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Giant>
  * Gnomes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gnome>
  * Goblins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goblin>
  * Gremlins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gremlin>
  * Halflings <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halfling>
  * Hobgoblins <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hobgoblin>
  * Kobolds <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kobold>
  * Ogres <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ogre>
  * Oni <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oni>
  * Orcs <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orc>
  * Trolls <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Troll>

Places and events
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_mythological_places>	

  * Quests <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quest>
  * Worlds <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantasy_world>
      o list <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_fantasy_worlds>
  * Lost city <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lost_city_(fiction)>
  * Hollow Earth <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subterranean_fiction>
  * Astral plane <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astral_plane>
  * Enchanted forest <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enchanted_forest>

Related	

  * Allegory <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegory>
  * /Dungeons & Dragons
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons>/
  * Epic poetry <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epic_poetry>
  * Fable <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fable>
  * Fairy tale <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fairy_tale>
  * Fantastic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fantastic>
  * Horror fiction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horror_fiction>
      o Ghost stories <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghost_story>
  * Human–animal hybrid
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Human%E2%80%93animal_hybrid>
  * LGBT themes in speculative fiction
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LGBT_themes_in_speculative_fiction>
  * Magic realism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_realism>
  * Mecha <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mecha>
  * Mythology <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mythology>
  * Science fantasy <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_fantasy>
  * Science fiction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_fiction>
  * Superhero fiction <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superhero_fiction>
  * Supernatural fiction
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supernatural_fiction>

  * Category Category <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Fantasy>
  * Portal Portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Speculative_fiction/Fantasy>

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&oldid=852573624"

Categories <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Category>:

  * 1865 British novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1865_British_novels>
  * Alice in Wonderland
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Alice_in_Wonderland>
  * Children's fantasy novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Children%27s_fantasy_novels>
  * British children's novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:British_children%27s_novels>
  * English novels <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:English_novels>
  * Fictional subterranea
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Fictional_subterranea>
  * Literature featuring anthropomorphic characters
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Literature_featuring_anthropomorphic_characters>
  * Size change in fiction
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Size_change_in_fiction>
  * Works by Lewis Carroll
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Works_by_Lewis_Carroll>
  * Victorian novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Victorian_novels>
  * 1865 fantasy novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:1865_fantasy_novels>
  * Macmillan Publishers books
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Macmillan_Publishers_books>
  * Animals in media
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Animals_in_media>
  * High fantasy novels
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:High_fantasy_novels>
  * Cultural depictions of Benjamin Disraeli
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Cultural_depictions_of_Benjamin_Disraeli>
  * D. Appleton & Company books
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:D._Appleton_%26_Company_books>
  * British novels adapted into films
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:British_novels_adapted_into_films>
  * Novels adapted into plays
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Novels_adapted_into_plays>
  * Books illustrated by John Tenniel
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Books_illustrated_by_John_Tenniel>
  * Novels adapted into video games
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Novels_adapted_into_video_games>

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Webarchive_template_wayback_links>
  * EngvarB from September 2013
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:EngvarB_from_September_2013>
  * Use dmy dates from December 2014
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Use_dmy_dates_from_December_2014>
  * Articles needing additional references from July 2018
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_needing_additional_references_from_July_2018>
  * All articles needing additional references
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:All_articles_needing_additional_references>
  * Articles with LibriVox links
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Articles_with_LibriVox_links>


    Navigation menu


      Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk>
  * Contributions <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions>
  * Create account
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Alice%27s+Adventures+in+Wonderland&returntoquery=printable%3Dyes>
  * Log in
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Alice%27s+Adventures+in+Wonderland&returntoquery=printable%3Dyes>


      Namespaces

  * Article
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Talk
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Talk:Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>


      Variants


      Views

  * Read <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Edit
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&action=edit>
  * View history
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&action=history>


      More


      Search

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>


      Navigation

  * Main page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page>
  * Contents <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Contents>
  * Featured content <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Featured_content>
  * Current events <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current_events>
  * Random article <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Random>
  * Donate to Wikipedia
    <https://donate.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FundraiserRedirector?utm_source=donate&utm_medium=sidebar&utm_campaign=C13_en.wikipedia.org&uselang=en>
  * Wikipedia store <https://shop.wikimedia.org/>


      Interaction

  * Help <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:Contents>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Community portal
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Community_portal>
  * Recent changes <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges>
  * Contact page <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>


      Tools

  * What links here
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Related changes
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Upload file <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_Upload_Wizard>
  * Special pages <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:SpecialPages>
  * Permanent link
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&oldid=852573624>
  * Page information
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&action=info>
  * Wikidata item <https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q92640>
  * Cite this page
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CiteThisPage&page=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&id=852573624>


      Print/export

  * Create a book
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Book&bookcmd=book_creator&referer=Alice%27s+Adventures+in+Wonderland>
  * Download as PDF
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:ElectronPdf&page=Alice%27s+Adventures+in+Wonderland&action=show-download-screen>


      In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
    <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Alice_in_Wonderland>
  * Wikiquote
    <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Wikisource
    <https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>


      Languages

  * Afrikaans
    <https://af.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_se_avonture_in_Wonderland>
  * Alemannisch <https://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_im_Wunderland>
  * Ænglisc
    <https://ang.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%86%C3%B0elg%C8%B3%C3%B0e_Ellend%C7%A3da_on_Wundorlande>
  * العربية
    <https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A3%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%B3_%D9%81%D9%8A_%D8%A8%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AF_%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B9%D8%AC%D8%A7%D8%A6%D8%A8_(%D8%B1%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%8A%D8%A9)>
  * Asturianu
    <https://ast.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_aventures_d%27Alicia_nel_pa%C3%ADs_de_les_marav%C3%ADes>
  * Azərbaycanca
    <https://az.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alisa_m%C3%B6c%C3%BCz%C9%99l%C9%99r_%C3%B6lk%C9%99sind%C9%99>
  * Bân-lâm-gú
    <https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_%C3%AA_Sian-k%C3%A0i_M%C5%8D%CD%98-hi%C3%A1m>
  * Беларуская
    <https://be.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D1%96%D1%81%D1%96%D0%BD%D1%8B_%D0%BF%D1%80%D1%8B%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B4%D1%8B_%D1%9E_%D0%B4%D0%B7%D1%96%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%81%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%B9_%D0%BA%D1%80%D0%B0%D1%96%D0%BD%D0%B5>
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
    <https://be-x-old.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B5%D1%81%D1%96%D0%BD%D1%8B_%D0%BF%D1%80%D1%8B%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B4%D1%8B_%D1%9E_%D0%B4%D0%B7%D1%96%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%81%D0%BD%D0%B0%D0%B9_%D0%BA%D1%80%D0%B0%D1%96%D0%BD%D0%B5>
  * Български
    <https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0_%D0%B2_%D0%A1%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0_%D0%BD%D0%B0_%D1%87%D1%83%D0%B4%D0%B5%D1%81%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0>
  * Bosanski <https://bs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alisa_u_zemlji_%C4%8Duda>
  * Brezhoneg
    <https://br.wikipedia.org/wiki/Troio%C3%B9-kaer_Alis_e_Bro_ar_Marzho%C3%B9>
  * Català
    <https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al%C3%ADcia_en_terra_de_meravelles>
  * Čeština
    <https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alenka_v_%C5%99%C3%AD%C5%A1i_div%C5%AF>
  * Cymraeg <https://cy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anturiaethau_Alys_yng_Ngwlad_Hud>
  * Dansk <https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_i_Eventyrland>
  * Deutsch <https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_im_Wunderland>
  * Eesti <https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Imedemaal>
  * Ελληνικά
    <https://el.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%9F%CE%B9_%CE%A0%CE%B5%CF%81%CE%B9%CF%80%CE%AD%CF%84%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%B5%CF%82_%CF%84%CE%B7%CF%82_%CE%91%CE%BB%CE%AF%CE%BA%CE%B7%CF%82_%CF%83%CF%84%CE%B7_%CE%A7%CF%8E%CF%81%CE%B1_%CF%84%CF%89%CE%BD_%CE%98%CE%B1%CF%85%CE%BC%CE%AC%CF%84%CF%89%CE%BD>
  * Español
    <https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Las_aventuras_de_Alicia_en_el_pa%C3%ADs_de_las_maravillas>
  * Esperanto
    <https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_aventuroj_de_Alicio_en_Mirlando>
  * Euskara
    <https://eu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aliceren_abenturak_Lurralde_Miresgarrian>
  * فارسی
    <https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A2%D9%84%DB%8C%D8%B3_%D8%AF%D8%B1_%D8%B3%D8%B1%D8%B2%D9%85%DB%8C%D9%86_%D8%B9%D8%AC%D8%A7%DB%8C%D8%A8>
  * Français
    <https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_Aventures_d%27Alice_au_pays_des_merveilles>
  * Frysk <https://fy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_yn_W%C3%BBnderl%C3%A2n>
  * Gaeilge
    <https://ga.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eachtra%C3%AD_Eil%C3%ADse_i_dT%C3%ADr_na_nIontas>
  * Galego
    <https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alicia_no_Pa%C3%ADs_das_marabillas>
  * ગુજરાતી
    <https://gu.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AA%8F%E0%AA%B2%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%B8%E0%AB%87%E0%AA%9D_%E0%AA%8F%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%B5%E0%AB%87%E0%AA%A8%E0%AB%8D%E0%AA%9A%E0%AA%B0%E0%AB%8D%E0%AA%B8_%E0%AA%87%E0%AA%A8_%E0%AA%B5%E0%AA%A8%E0%AB%8D%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%B0%E0%AA%B2%E0%AB%87%E0%AA%A8%E0%AB%8D%E0%AA%A1>
  * 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺
    <https://got.wikipedia.org/wiki/%F0%90%8C%B1%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%BB%F0%90%8C%B8%F0%90%8D%89%F0%90%8D%83_%F0%90%8C%B2%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%B3%F0%90%8C%B4%F0%90%8C%B3%F0%90%8C%B4%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8D%83_%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%B8%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%BB%F0%90%8C%B7%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8C%B3%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8D%83_%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8C%BD_%F0%90%8D%83%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8C%BB%F0%90%8C%B3%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%BB%F0%90%8C%B4%F0%90%8C%B9%F0%90%8C%BA%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%BB%F0%90%8C%B0%F0%90%8C%BD%F0%90%8C%B3%F0%90%8C%B0>
  * 한국어
    <https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%9D%B4%EC%83%81%ED%95%9C_%EB%82%98%EB%9D%BC%EC%9D%98_%EC%95%A8%EB%A6%AC%EC%8A%A4>
  * Հայերեն
    <https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D4%B1%D5%AC%D5%AB%D5%BD%D5%A8_%D5%80%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%B7%D6%84%D5%B6%D5%A5%D6%80%D5%AB_%D5%A1%D5%B7%D5%AD%D5%A1%D6%80%D5%B0%D5%B8%D6%82%D5%B4>
  * हिन्दी
    <https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%90%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%87%E0%A4%9C%E0%A4%BC_%E0%A4%8F%E0%A4%A1%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%88%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%9A%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%A8_%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%A3%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%B2%E0%A5%88%E0%A4%A3%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A1>
  * Hrvatski <https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alisa_u_zemlji_%C4%8Dudesa>
  * Ido <https://io.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_aventuri_di_Alicia_en_Marvelia>
  * Bahasa Indonesia
    <https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Interlingua
    <https://ia.wikipedia.org/wiki/Le_aventuras_de_Alicia_in_le_pais_del_meravilias>
  * Íslenska <https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%C3%ADsa_%C3%AD_Undralandi>
  * Italiano
    <https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Le_avventure_di_Alice_nel_Paese_delle_Meraviglie>
  * עברית
    <https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%94%D7%A8%D7%A4%D7%AA%D7%A7%D7%90%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%90%D7%9C%D7%99%D7%A1_%D7%91%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%A5_%D7%94%D7%A4%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%95%D7%AA>
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
    <https://kn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%86%E0%B2%B2%E0%B2%BF%E2%80%8C%E0%B2%B8%E0%B2%B8%E0%B3%8D_%E0%B2%85%E0%B2%A1%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%B5%E0%B3%86%E0%B2%82%E0%B2%9A%E0%B2%B0%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%B8%E0%B3%8D_%E0%B2%87%E0%B2%A8%E0%B3%8D_%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%82%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%B0%E0%B3%8D%E2%80%8C%E0%B2%B2%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%AF%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%82%E0%B2%A1%E0%B3%8D>
  * ქართული
    <https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%90%E1%83%9A%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1%E1%83%90_%E1%83%A1%E1%83%90%E1%83%9D%E1%83%AA%E1%83%A0%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%90%E1%83%97%E1%83%90_%E1%83%A5%E1%83%95%E1%83%94%E1%83%A7%E1%83%90%E1%83%9C%E1%83%90%E1%83%A8%E1%83%98>
  * Қазақша
    <https://kk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0_%D2%93%D0%B0%D0%B6%D0%B0%D0%B9%D1%8B%D0%BF%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80_%D0%B5%D0%BB%D1%96%D0%BD%D0%B4%D0%B5>
  * Кыргызча
    <https://ky.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0%D0%BD%D1%8B%D0%BD_%D0%BA%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%82_%D0%B4%D2%AF%D0%B9%D0%BD%D3%A9%D0%B4%D3%A9%D0%B3%D2%AF_%D1%83%D0%BA%D0%BC%D1%83%D1%88%D1%82%D1%83%D1%83_%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%8F%D0%BB%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%8B>
  * Latina <https://la.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alicia_in_Terra_Mirabili>
  * Latviešu
    <https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alises_piedz%C4%ABvojumi_Br%C4%ABnumzem%C4%93>
  * Magyar <https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Csodaorsz%C3%A1gban>
  * Македонски
    <https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D0%BE_%D0%B7%D0%B5%D0%BC%D1%98%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0_%D0%BD%D0%B0_%D1%87%D1%83%D0%B4%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0>
  * മലയാളം
    <https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%86%E0%B4%B2%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%B8%E0%B4%B8%E0%B5%8D_%E0%B4%85%E0%B4%A1%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%9E%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%9A%E0%B5%87%E0%B4%B4%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%B8%E0%B5%8D_%E0%B4%87%E0%B5%BB_%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%A3%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%9F%E0%B5%BC_%E0%B4%B2%E0%B4%BE%E0%B5%BB%E0%B4%A1%E0%B5%8D>
  * मराठी
    <https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%85%E0%A5%85%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%87%E0%A4%A8_%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%82%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%B2%E0%A4%81%E0%A4%A1>
  * Bahasa Melayu
    <https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
    <https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%A1%E1%80%B2%E1%80%9C%E1%80%85%E1%80%BA%E1%80%80%E1%80%9C%E1%80%B1%E1%80%B8%E1%81%8F_%E1%80%91%E1%80%B0%E1%80%B8%E1%80%86%E1%80%94%E1%80%BA%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9E%E1%80%B1%E1%80%AC_%E1%80%A1%E1%80%AD%E1%80%95%E1%80%BA%E1%80%99%E1%80%80%E1%80%BA>
  * Dorerin Naoero
    <https://na.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Nederlands
    <https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * 日本語
    <https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%B8%8D%E6%80%9D%E8%AD%B0%E3%81%AE%E5%9B%BD%E3%81%AE%E3%82%A2%E3%83%AA%E3%82%B9>
  * Norsk <https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_i_Eventyrland>
  * Norsk nynorsk <https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_i_Eventyrland>
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
    <https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%90%E0%A8%B2%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%B8_%E0%A8%87%E0%A8%A8_%E0%A8%B5%E0%A9%B0%E0%A8%A1%E0%A8%B0%E0%A8%B2%E0%A9%88%E0%A8%82%E0%A8%A1>
  * Polski <https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alicja_w_Krainie_Czar%C3%B3w>
  * Português
    <https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_no_Pa%C3%ADs_das_Maravilhas>
  * Română <https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_%C3%AEn_%C8%9Aara_Minunilor>
  * Русский
    <https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D0%B8%D1%81%D0%B0_%D0%B2_%D0%A1%D1%82%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B5_%D1%87%D1%83%D0%B4%D0%B5%D1%81>
  * Scots
    <https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Simple English
    <https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Slovenčina
    <https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alica_v_krajine_z%C3%A1zrakov_(kniha)>
  * Српски / srpski <https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alisa_u_zemlji_%C4%8Duda>
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
    <https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * Suomi <https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liisan_seikkailut_ihmemaassa>
  * Svenska <https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_i_Underlandet>
  * தமிழ்
    <https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%86%E0%AE%B2%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%9A%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%A9%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%85%E0%AE%B1%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A4_%E0%AE%89%E0%AE%B2%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%AE%E0%AF%8D>
  * తెలుగు
    <https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%86%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%B8%E0%B1%8D%27%E0%B0%B8%E0%B1%8D_%E0%B0%8E%E0%B0%A1%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%B5%E0%B1%86%E0%B0%A8%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%9A%E0%B0%B0%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%B8%E0%B1%8D_%E0%B0%87%E0%B0%A8%E0%B1%8D_%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%B0%E0%B1%8D%E2%80%8C%E0%B0%B2%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B1%8D>
  * ไทย
    <https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%A5%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%8B%E0%B8%97%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%87%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%99%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%A8%E0%B8%88%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A2%E0%B9%8C>
  * Türkçe <https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Harikalar_Diyar%C4%B1nda>
  * Українська
    <https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%90%D0%BB%D1%96%D1%81%D0%B8%D0%BD%D1%96_%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B8_%D1%83_%D0%94%D0%B8%D0%B2%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%80%D0%B0%D1%97>
  * اردو
    <https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D8%A7%DB%8C%D9%84%D8%B3_%D8%A7%D9%86_%D9%88%D9%86%DA%88%D8%B1_%D9%84%DB%8C%D9%86%DA%88>
  * Tiếng Việt
    <https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cu%E1%BB%99c_phi%C3%AAu_l%C6%B0u_c%E1%BB%A7a_Alice_v%C3%A0o_X%E1%BB%A9_s%E1%BB%9F_th%E1%BA%A7n_ti%C3%AAn>
  * Walon
    <https://wa.wikipedia.org/wiki/Les_aviretes_da_Alice_%C3%A5_payis_des_marvoyes_(roman)>
  * Winaray
    <https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland>
  * 粵語
    <https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E6%84%9B%E9%BA%97%E7%B5%B2%E5%A4%A2%E9%81%8A%E4%BB%99%E5%A2%83>
  * 中文
    <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E7%88%B1%E4%B8%BD%E4%B8%9D%E6%A2%A6%E6%B8%B8%E4%BB%99%E5%A2%83>
  * Lingua Franca Nova
    <https://lfn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alisia_en_la_pais_de_mervelias>
    71 more

Edit links
<https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Special:EntityPage/Q92640#sitelinks-wikipedia>

  * This page was last edited on 29 July 2018, at 23:03 (UTC).
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
    License
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License><https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/>;
    additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the
    Terms of Use <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Terms_of_Use> and
    Privacy Policy
    <https://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>. Wikipedia® is
    a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc.
    <https://www.wikimediafoundation.org/>, a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Privacy_policy>
  * About Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:About>
  * Disclaimers <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer>
  * Contact Wikipedia <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contact_us>
  * Developers
    <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Special:MyLanguage/How_to_contribute>
  * Cookie statement
    <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cookie_statement>
  * Mobile view
    <https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland&printable=yes&mobileaction=toggle_view_mobile>
  * Enable previews <#>

  * Wikimedia Foundation <https://foundation.wikimedia.org/>	
  * Powered by MediaWiki <https://www.mediawiki.org/>	

<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland?action=edit>
